[PL-42559] Consolidate custom certs content - Delegate, CI, STO (#5624)
harness/developer-hub: docs/platform/delegates/secure-delegates/install-delegates-with-custom-certs.md

                name: my-secret-upgrader-config
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configure a Kubernetes build farm to use self-signed certificates

> <DocsTag  text="Team plan" link="/docs/continuous-integration/ci-quickstarts/ci-subscription-mgmt" /> <DocsTag  text="Enterprise plan" link="/docs/continuous-integration/ci-quickstarts/ci-subscription-mgmt" />

Reviewer: You can take these off. They're only relevant in the context of CI docs.

> CI build infrastructure pods can interact with servers using self-signed certificates. This option is useful for organizations that prefer to use internal certificates instead of certificates generated by a public Certificate Authority (CA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a [Kubernetes cluster build infrastructure](/docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/set-up-build-infrastructure/k8s-build-infrastructure/set-up-a-kubernetes-cluster-build-infrastructure), CI build infrastructure pods can interact with servers using self-signed certificates. This option is useful for organizations that prefer to use internal certificates instead of certificates generated by a public Certificate Authority (CA).
```

:::info

> * This topic assumes that you are familiar with how to implement SSL in Kubernetes. General information about implementing SSL is outside the scope of this topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* These instructions assume you are familiar with implementing SSL in Kubernetes. General information about implementing SSL is outside the scope of these instructions.
```

> * With a Kubernetes cluster build infrastructure, all **Build and Push** steps use [kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko/blob/main/README.md). Kaniko reads certificates from `/kaniko/ssl/certs/additional-ca-cert-bundle.crt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* With a [Kubernetes cluster build infrastructure](/docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/set-up-build-infrastructure/k8s-build-infrastructure/set-up-a-kubernetes-cluster-build-infrastructure), all **Build and Push** steps use [kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko/blob/main/README.md). Kaniko reads certificates from `/kaniko/ssl/certs/additional-ca-cert-bundle.crt`.
```

* Harness uses a UBI image for the Git Clone step. UBI reads certificates from `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt`.

> * Different base images use different paths as their default certificate location. For example, Alpine images use the path `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`. For other images, make sure you verify the default certificate path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Different base images use different paths as their default certificate location. For example, Alpine images use the path `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`. For other images, make sure you verify the default certificate path.
* For more information about using a Kubernetes cluster build infrastructure for Harness CI, go to [Set up a Kubernetes cluster build infrastructure](/docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/set-up-build-infrastructure/k8s-build-infrastructure/set-up-a-kubernetes-cluster-build-infrastructure).
```

   :::warning

   * Make sure the destination path is not same as the default CA certificate path of the corresponding container image.

   * If you override the default certificate file, make sure the Kubernetes secret or config map (from step one) includes *all* certificates required by the pipelines that will use this build infrastructure.

   * To save time and minimize the number of default certificates you need to declare, you can enable the auto-mount default certificates beta feature. This feature automatically mounts certificates for out-of-the-box step containers, and you no longer need to declare the certs path for the built-in steps in addition to your own self-signed certificates. Currently, auto-mounting default certificates is behind the feature flag `CI_DEFAULT_CERTS`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.

   :::

3. Restart the delegate. Once it is up and running, `exec` into the container and ensure that the volume exists at the mounted path and contains your certificates.

### Enable self-signed certificates with a self-hosted image registry (advanced)

> :::important

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning
```

   For example, if your self-signed certs are stored at `https://my-registry.local.org:799` and you log in with `docker login my-registry.local.org:799`, then you add the path to your `DESTINATION_CA_PATH` environment like this:

   ```yaml
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: harness/delegate:yy.mm.verno
        env:
        - name: DESTINATION_CA_PATH
          value: "/etc/docker/certs.d/my-registry.local.org:799/ca.crt,/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt,/kaniko/ssl/certs/additional-ca-cert-bundle.crt"
        volumeMounts:
          - name: certvol
            mountPath: /opt/harness-delegate/ca-bundle/ca.bundle
            subPath:  ca.bundle
      volumes:
       - name: certvol
         secret:
             secretName: addcerts
              items:
              - key: ca.bundle
                path: ca.bundle
   ```

4. Restart the delegate. Once it's up and running, `exec` into the container and ensure that the volume exists at the mounted path and contains your certificates.

> ### Troubleshoot Kubernetes cluster build infrastructures
> 
> Go to the [CI Knowledge Base](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs) for questions and issues related to Kubernetes cluster build infrastructures, including use of self-signed certificates, such as:
> 
> * [SCM service connection issues](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs/#git-connector-scm-connection-errors-when-using-self-signed-certificates)
> * [How do I make internal CA certs available to the delegate pod?](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs/#how-do-i-make-internal-ca-certs-available-to-the-delegate-pod)
> * [Where should I mount internal CA certs on the build pod?](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs/#where-should-i-mount-internal-ca-certs-on-the-build-pod)
> * [Certificate volumes aren't mounted to the build pod](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs/#certificate-volumes-arent-mounted-to-the-build-pod)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Troubleshoot self-signed certificates for Kubernetes cluster build infrastructures

Go to the [CI Knowledge Base](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs) for questions and issues related to Kubernetes cluster build infrastructures, including use of self-signed certificates, such as:

* [SCM service connection issues](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs/#git-connector-scm-connection-errors-when-using-self-signed-certificates)
* [How do I make internal CA certs available to the delegate pod?](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs/#how-do-i-make-internal-ca-certs-available-to-the-delegate-pod)
* [Where should I mount internal CA certs on the build pod?](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs/#where-should-i-mount-internal-ca-certs-on-the-build-pod)
* [Certificate volumes aren't mounted to the build pod](/kb/continuous-integration/continuous-integration-faqs/#certificate-volumes-arent-mounted-to-the-build-pod)
```

                # ...
              ports:
                # ...
              resources:
                # ...
              livenessProbe:
                # ...
              startupProbe:
                # ...
              envFrom:
                # ...
              env:
                # ...
              volumeMounts:
              ### ADD THE VOLUME MOUNT HERE
              - name: certvol
                mountPath: /opt/harness-delegate/ca-bundle/ca.bundle
                subPath: ca.bundle
             volumes:
             ### ADD THE VOLUME HERE
             - name: certvol
               secret:
                 secretName: addcerts
                 items:
                   - key: ca.bundle
                     path: ca.bundle
   ```

   </details>

   Both CI build pods and the SCM client on the delegate support this method.

   :::warning

   * Make sure the destination path is not same as the default CA certificate path of the corresponding container image.

   * If you override the default certificate file, make sure the Kubernetes secret or config map (from step one) includes *all* certificates required by the pipelines that will use this build infrastructure.

>    * To save time and minimize the number of default certificates you need to declare, you can enable the auto-mount default certificates beta feature. This feature automatically mounts certificates for out-of-the-box step containers, and you no longer need to declare the certs path for the built-in steps in addition to your own self-signed certificates. Currently, auto-mounting default certificates is behind the feature flag `CI_DEFAULT_CERTS`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * To save time and minimize the number of default certificates you need to declare, you can enable the auto-mount default certificates beta feature. This feature automatically mounts certificates for certain step containers<!--Git clone and kaniko steps-->, and you no longer need to declare the certs path for the built-in steps in addition to your own self-signed certificates. Currently, auto-mounting default certificates is behind the feature flag `CI_DEFAULT_CERTS`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
```

                # ...
              envFrom:
                # ...
              env:
              ### ADD DESTINATION_CA_PATH HERE
              - name: DESTINATION_CA_PATH
                value: "/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt,/kaniko/ssl/certs/additional-ca-cert-bundle.crt"
              volumeMounts:
              ### ADD THE VOLUME MOUNT HERE
              - name: certvol
                mountPath: /opt/harness-delegate/ca-bundle/ca.bundle
                subPath: ca.bundle
             volumes:
             ### ADD THE VOLUME HERE
             - name: certvol
               secret:
                 secretName: addcerts
                 items:
                   - key: ca.bundle
                    path: ca.bundle
   ```

   </details>

   Both CI build pods and the SCM client on the delegate support this method.

   :::warning

   * Make sure the destination path is not same as the default CA certificate path of the corresponding container image.

   * If you override the default certificate file, make sure the Kubernetes secret or config map (from step one) includes *all* certificates required by the pipelines that will use this build infrastructure.

>    * To save time and minimize the number of default certificates you need to declare, you can enable the auto-mount default certificates beta feature. This feature automatically mounts certificates for out-of-the-box step containers even if they are not specified in `DESTINATION_CA_PATH`. With this feature, you no longer need to declare the certs path for the built-in steps in addition to your own self-signed certificates. Currently, auto-mounting default certificates is behind the feature flag `CI_DEFAULT_CERTS`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * To save time and minimize the number of default certificates you need to declare, you can enable the auto-mount default certificates beta feature. This feature automatically mounts certificates for certain step containers<!--Git clone and kaniko steps--> even if they are not specified in `DESTINATION_CA_PATH`. With this feature, you no longer need to declare the certs path for the built-in steps in addition to your own self-signed certificates. Currently, auto-mounting default certificates is behind the feature flag `CI_DEFAULT_CERTS`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
```
